CPT283 Final Project Instructions Version Date:  April 19, 2018 
Project Name: Vehicle Log 

Project Purpose:  
Vehicle Log is a maintenance management program for one of more automobiles or trucks. 
Almost everyone has a vehicle that requires everything from gasoline to costly maintenance 
repairs. Vehicle Log is designed to track the use and cost of all consumables as well as 
machine maintenance. It will calculate the cost to operate a vehicle over a period of time. It will 
help the user watch everything from how many miles per gallon they are getting to how many 
miles a set of tires lasts. Vehicle Log can work for one vehicle or a whole fleet. 

Project Database: 
Your instructor has prepared a database for the Vehicle Log project. CPT283 students DO NOT 
have to use this database. It was prepared to give CPT283 students a starting place to get to 
work on their PHP interface. Students are encouraged to create their own mySQL database for 
this project or alter the database provided by the instructor. Section 3 in our textbook starting on 
page 505 details how to design and create mySQL databases. There are many online resources 
to help with this as well. Google “How to create a mySQL database using phpMyAdmin” and 
you will find many helpful sites. The instructor‘s version of the database has already been 
installed in your lab virtual server. 

Minimum Requirements: 
 Tables for users, vehicles, maintenance_type, maintenance, and fuel 

 Users should be able to lookup, add, and edit vehicles, maintenance_types, 
maintenance, and fuel; only administrators should be able to delete anything or add, 
edit, and delete users 

 There should be a vehicle_log/admin subdirectory that is protected by an Apache 
htaccess password where all admin interface pages will be located; the username 
should be cpt283 and the password should be webapps 

 The users tables should capture at least the user_id, first_name, last_name, 
user_password, and email   

 The maintenance table should capture the maintenance_id, maintenance_type_id, 
and vehicle_id, and at a minimum the maintenance_vendor, 
maintenance_description, and maintenance_cost of each maintenance event 

 The fuel table should capture at a minimum the fuel_id, vehicle_id, fuel_source, 
fuel_gallons, fuel_cost, fuel_mileage 

 Users should be able to view reports on each vehicle that details the maintenance 
events, fuel used, average mileage for consumables like fuel, oil, and tires, and the cost 
of operation on each vehicle over a period of time 

 The solution application must be well documented with comments embedded in the code 
Extras (for extra credit): 

 Roles assigned to users like admin or user; authentication for users; see “How to use 
authentication” in Chapter 21 in our textbook 

 Report options listing the details of each individual table that includes printing and 
exporting data to a spreadsheet 

CPT283 Final Project Instructions 180419.docx                                                         
Page 1 
CPT283: PHP Programming I 

Final Project Instructions 
 Authentication for administrators with additional features for adding/editing/deleting  
all tables 
 Make the application responsive for small screens by using Twitter’s Bootstrap 
 Use MVC pattern in code development 
 Embed an online HTML editor like TinyMCE 
 CPT283 student added extra feature not specified in the Final Project assignment 
Application Structure: 
In an effort to leave CPT283 students as much flexibility as possible, the application structure 
expectations are limited to the following: 
 The interface must be original PHP code written by the CPT283 student submitting the 
project; do not use any non-original utilities or other code not created by you in your 
project unless expressly approved by your instructor (i.e. Bootstrap, TinyMCE, etc.) 
 The database must be in mySQL and be named vehicle_log 
 Develop the project on your assigned CPT283 virtual server; create a directory named 
vehicle_log in the document root of your web server ( /var/www/html/vehicle_log ) 
which will contain all of your PHP, HTML, and CSS files 
Disclaimer: 
Your instructor reserves the right to change these instructions as necessary at any time. 
CPT283 students will be notified of any changes by way of email and announcements on our 
Blackboard class page.  
Questions and Suggestions: 
Your feedback about the final project is encouraged. Address all questions and/or suggestions 
to your instructor at sandewbs@my.gvltec.edu. 
Attachments: 
Final Project Grading Rubric 
vehicle_log.sql printout